In another moment down went Alice after it, never once considering how in the world she was to get out again.
The rabbit-hole went straight on like a tunnel for some way, and then dipped suddenly down, so suddenly that Alice had not a moment to think about stopping herself before she found herself falling down a very deep well.
There were doors all round the hall, but they were all locked; and when Alice had been all the way down one side and up the other, trying every door, she walked sadly down the middle, wondering how she was ever to get out again.
However, this bottle was not marked “poison,” so Alice ventured to taste it, and finding it very nice, (it had, in fact, a sort of mixed flavour of cherry-tart, custard, pine-apple, roast turkey, toffee, and hot buttered toast,) she very soon finished it off.
So she set to work, and very soon finished off the cake.
And she went on planning to herself how she would manage it. “They must go by the carrier,” she thought; “and how funny it’ll seem, sending presents to one’s own feet! And how odd the directions will look!
Alice’s Right Foot, Esq., Hearthrug, near the Fender, (with Alice’s love).
Just then her head struck against the roof of the hall: in fact she was now more than nine feet high, and she at once took up the little golden key and hurried off to the garden door.
Poor Alice! It was as much as she could do, lying down on one side, to look through into the garden with one eye; but to get through was more hopeless than ever: she sat down and began to cry again.
How doth the little crocodile Improve his shining tail, And pour the waters of the Nile On every golden scale!
They were indeed a queer-looking party that assembled on the bank—the birds with draggled feathers, the animals with their fur clinging close to them, and all dripping wet, cross, and uncomfortable.
Ugh!” said the Lory, with a shiver.
Not I!” said the Lory hastily.
Speak English!” said the Eaglet. “I don’t know the meaning of half those long words, and, what’s more, I don’t believe you do either!” And the Eaglet bent down its head to hide a smile: some of the other birds tittered audibly.
What is a Caucus-race?” said Alice; not that she wanted much to know, but the Dodo had paused as if it thought that somebody ought to speak, and no one else seemed inclined to say anything.
But who is to give the prizes?” quite a chorus of voices asked.
Alice had no idea what to do, and in despair she put her hand in her pocket, and pulled out a box of comfits, (luckily the salt water had not got into it), and handed them round as prizes. There was exactly one a-piece, all round.
But she must have a prize herself, you know,” said the Mouse.
Of course,” the Dodo replied very gravely. “What else have you got in your pocket?” he went on, turning to Alice.
Only a thimble,” said Alice sadly.
Hand it over here,” said the Dodo.
Then they all crowded round her once more, while the Dodo solemnly presented the thimble, saying “We beg your acceptance of this elegant thimble;” and, when it had finished this short speech, they all cheered.
Alice thought the whole thing very absurd, but they all looked so grave that she did not dare to laugh; and, as she could not think of anything to say, she simply bowed, and took the thimble, looking as solemn as she could.
You promised to tell me your history, you know,” said Alice, “and why it is you hate—C and D,” she added in a whisper, half afraid that it would be offended again.
Mine is a long and a sad tale!” said the Mouse, turning to Alice, and sighing.
I had not!” cried the Mouse, sharply and very angrily.
The Mouse only growled in reply.
Please come back and finish your story!” Alice called after it; and the others all joined in chorus, “Yes, please do!” but the Mouse only shook its head impatiently, and walked a little quicker.
And who is Dinah, if I might venture to ask the question?” said the Lory.
Luckily for Alice, the little magic bottle had now had its full effect, and she grew no larger: still it was very uncomfortable, and, as there seemed to be no sort of chance of her ever getting out of the room again, no wonder she felt unhappy.
And so she went on, taking first one side and then the other, and making quite a conversation of it altogether; but after a few minutes she heard a voice outside, and stopped to listen.
So you did, old fellow!” said the others.
This seemed to Alice a good opportunity for making her escape; so she set off at once, and ran till she was quite tired and out of breath, and till the puppy’s bark sounded quite faint in the distance.
The Caterpillar and Alice looked at each other for some time in silence: at last the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its mouth, and addressed her in a languid, sleepy voice.
Who are you?” said the Caterpillar.
I don’t see,” said the Caterpillar.
Not a bit,” said the Caterpillar.
Here was another puzzling question; and as Alice could not think of any good reason, and as the Caterpillar seemed to be in a very unpleasant state of mind, she turned away.
This sounded promising, certainly: Alice turned and came back again.
Keep your temper,” said the Caterpillar.
Is that all?” said Alice, swallowing down her anger as well as she could.
Can’t remember what things?” said the Caterpillar.
Well, I’ve tried to say “How doth the little busy bee,” but it all came different!” Alice replied in a very melancholy voice.
Repeat, ‘You are old, Father William,’” said the Caterpillar.
That is not said right,” said the Caterpillar.
It is wrong from beginning to end,” said the Caterpillar decidedly, and there was silence for some minutes.
The Caterpillar was the first to speak.
What size do you want to be?” it asked.
I don’t know,” said the Caterpillar.
Alice said nothing: she had never been so much contradicted in her life before, and she felt that she was losing her temper.
Are you content now?” said the Caterpillar.
It is a very good height indeed!” said the Caterpillar angrily, rearing itself upright as it spoke (it was exactly three inches high).
You’ll get used to it in time,” said the Caterpillar; and it put the hookah into its mouth and began smoking again.
One side of what? The other side of what?” thought Alice to herself.
Of the mushroom,” said the Caterpillar, just as if she had asked it aloud; and in another moment it was out of sight.
And now which is which?” she said to herself, and nibbled a little of the right-hand bit to try the effect: the next moment she felt a violent blow underneath her chin: it had struck her foot!
I haven’t the least idea what you’re talking about,” said Alice.
Alice was more and more puzzled, but she thought there was no use in saying anything more till the Pigeon had finished.
I’m very sorry you’ve been annoyed,” said Alice, who was beginning to see its meaning.
I—I’m a little girl,” said Alice, rather doubtfully, as she remembered the number of changes she had gone through that day.
Then they both bowed low, and their curls got entangled together.
Alice laughed so much at this, that she had to run back into the wood for fear of their hearing her; and when she next peeped out the Fish-Footman was gone, and the other was sitting on the ground near the door, staring stupidly up into the sky.
Alice went timidly up to the door, and knocked.
At this moment the door of the house opened, and a large plate came skimming out, straight at the Footman’s head: it just grazed his nose, and broke to pieces against one of the trees behind him.
or next day, maybe,” the Footman continued in the same tone, exactly as if nothing had happened.
How am I to get in?” asked Alice again, in a louder tone.
But what am I to do?” said Alice.
Anything you like,” said the Footman, and began whistling.
Oh, there’s no use in talking to him,” said Alice desperately: “he’s perfectly idiotic!” And she opened the door and went in.
There’s certainly too much pepper in that soup!” Alice said to herself, as well as she could for sneezing.
I don’t know of any that do,” Alice said very politely, feeling quite pleased to have got into a conversation.
Oh, please mind what you’re doing!” cried Alice, jumping up and down in an agony of terror. “Oh, there goes his precious nose!” as an unusually large saucepan flew close by it, and very nearly carried it off.
The Cat only grinned when it saw Alice. It looked good-natured, she thought: still it had very long claws and a great many teeth, so she felt that it ought to be treated with respect.
That depends a good deal on where you want to get to,” said the Cat.
I don’t much care where—” said Alice.
Then it doesn’t matter which way you go,” said the Cat.
so long as I get somewhere,” Alice added as an explanation.
But I don’t want to go among mad people,” Alice remarked.
How do you know I’m mad?” said Alice.
I call it purring, not growling,” said Alice.
You’ll see me there,” said the Cat, and vanished.
Alice was not much surprised at this, she was getting so used to queer things happening. While she was looking at the place where it had been, it suddenly appeared again.
It turned into a pig,” Alice quietly said, just as if it had come back in a natural way.
I thought it would,” said the Cat, and vanished again.
Did you say pig, or fig?” said the Cat.
All right,” said the Cat; and this time it vanished quite slowly, beginning with the end of the tail, and ending with the grin, which remained some time after the rest of it had gone.
Have some wine,” the March Hare said in an encouraging tone.
Alice looked all round the table, but there was nothing on it but tea. “I don’t see any wine,” she remarked.
There isn’t any,” said the March Hare.
Then it wasn’t very civil of you to offer it,” said Alice angrily.
It wasn’t very civil of you to sit down without being invited,” said the March Hare.
Your hair wants cutting,” said the Hatter. He had been looking at Alice for some time with great curiosity, and this was his first speech.
Come, we shall have some fun now!” thought Alice. “I’m glad they’ve begun asking riddles.—I believe I can guess that,” she added aloud.
Do you mean that you think you can find out the answer to it?” said the March Hare.
Then you should say what you mean,” the March Hare went on.
It is the same thing with you,” said the Hatter, and here the conversation dropped, and the party sat silent for a minute, while Alice thought over all she could remember about ravens and writing-desks, which wasn’t much.
The Hatter was the first to break the silence. “What day of the month is it?” he said, turning to Alice: he had taken his watch out of his pocket, and was looking at it uneasily, shaking it every now and then, and holding it to his ear.
Two days wrong!” sighed the Hatter. “I told you butter wouldn’t suit the works!” he added looking angrily at the March Hare.
It was the best butter,” the March Hare meekly replied.
Which is just the case with mine,” said the Hatter.
Alice felt dreadfully puzzled, The Hatter’s remark seemed to have no sort of meaning in it, and yet it was certainly English. “I don’t quite understand you,” she said, as politely as she could.
The Dormouse is asleep again,” said the Hatter, and he poured a little hot tea upon its nose.
Have you guessed the riddle yet?” the Hatter said, turning to Alice again.
I haven’t the slightest idea,” said the Hatter.
Nor I,” said the March Hare.
I don’t know what you mean,” said Alice.
Is that the way you manage?” Alice asked.
I’ve heard something like it,” said Alice.
Here the Dormouse shook itself, and began singing in its sleep “Twinkle, twinkle, twinkle, twinkle—” and went on so long that they had to pinch it to make it stop.
A bright idea came into Alice’s head. “Is that the reason so many tea-things are put out here?” she asked.
Then you keep moving round, I suppose?” said Alice.
But what happens when you come to the beginning again?” Alice ventured to ask.
I’m afraid I don’t know one,” said Alice, rather alarmed at the proposal.
Then the Dormouse shall!” they both cried. “Wake up, Dormouse!” And they pinched it on both sides at once.
Tell us a story!” said the March Hare.
What did they live on?” said Alice, who always took a great interest in questions of eating and drinking.
They lived on treacle,” said the Dormouse, after thinking a minute or two.
Take some more tea,” the March Hare said to Alice, very earnestly.
Nobody asked your opinion,” said Alice.
Who’s making personal remarks now?” the Hatter asked triumphantly.
What did they draw?” said Alice, quite forgetting her promise.
Treacle,” said the Dormouse, without considering at all this time.
But they were in the well,” Alice said to the Dormouse, not choosing to notice this last remark.
This answer so confused poor Alice, that she let the Dormouse go on for some time without interrupting it.
Why with an M?” said Alice.
Why not?” said the March Hare.
Then you shouldn’t talk,” said the Hatter.
Just as she said this, she noticed that one of the trees had a door leading right into it. “That’s very curious!” she thought. “But everything’s curious today. I think I may as well go in at once.” And in she went.
What for?” said the one who had spoken first.
That’s none of your business, Two!” said Seven.
Seven flung down his brush, and had just begun “Well, of all the unjust things—” when his eye chanced to fall upon Alice, as she stood watching them, and he checked himself suddenly: the others looked round also, and all of them bowed low.
When the procession came opposite to Alice, they all stopped and looked at her, and the Queen said severely “Who is this?” She said it to the Knave of Hearts, who only bowed and smiled in reply.
Nonsense!” said Alice, very loudly and decidedly, and the Queen was silent.
The Knave did so, very carefully, with one foot.
Get up!” said the Queen, in a shrill, loud voice, and the three gardeners instantly jumped up, and began bowing to the King, the Queen, the royal children, and everybody else.
I see!” said the Queen, who had meanwhile been examining the roses. “Off with their heads!” and the procession moved on, three of the soldiers remaining behind to execute the unfortunate gardeners, who ran to Alice for protection.
You shan’t be beheaded!” said Alice, and she put them into a large flower-pot that stood near. The three soldiers wandered about for a minute or two, looking for them, and then quietly marched off after the others.
Are their heads off?” shouted the Queen.
Their heads are gone, if it please your Majesty!” the soldiers shouted in reply.
The soldiers were silent, and looked at Alice, as the question was evidently meant for her.
Come on, then!” roared the Queen, and Alice joined the procession, wondering very much what would happen next.
It’s—it’s a very fine day!” said a timid voice at her side. She was walking by the White Rabbit, who was peeping anxiously into her face.
Did you say ‘What a pity!’?” the Rabbit asked.
How are you getting on?” said the Cat, as soon as there was mouth enough for it to speak with.
How do you like the Queen?” said the Cat in a low voice.
Who are you talking to?” said the King, going up to Alice, and looking at the Cat’s head with great curiosity.
I’d rather not,” the Cat remarked.
Don’t be impertinent,” said the King, “and don’t look at me like that!” He got behind Alice as he spoke.
I’ll fetch the executioner myself,” said the King eagerly, and he hurried off.
The moment Alice appeared, she was appealed to by all three to settle the question, and they repeated their arguments to her, though, as they all spoke at once, she found it very hard indeed to make out exactly what they said.
The executioner’s argument was, that you couldn’t cut off a head unless there was a body to cut it off from: that he had never had to do such a thing before, and he wasn’t going to begin at his time of life.
The King’s argument was, that anything that had a head could be beheaded, and that you weren’t to talk nonsense.
She’s in prison,” the Queen said to the executioner: “fetch her here.” And the executioner went off like an arrow.
You can’t think how glad I am to see you again, you dear old thing!” said the Duchess, as she tucked her arm affectionately into Alice’s, and they walked off together.
Alice was very glad to find her in such a pleasant temper, and thought to herself that perhaps it was only the pepper that had made her so savage when they met in the kitchen.
Perhaps it hasn’t one,” Alice ventured to remark.
Tut, tut, child!” said the Duchess. “Everything’s got a moral, if only you can find it.” And she squeezed herself up closer to Alice’s side as she spoke.
The game’s going on rather better now,” she said, by way of keeping up the conversation a little.
How fond she is of finding morals in things!” Alice thought to herself.
He might bite,” Alice cautiously replied, not feeling at all anxious to have the experiment tried.
Only mustard isn’t a bird,” Alice remarked.
It’s a mineral, I think,” said Alice.
That’s nothing to what I could say if I chose,” the Duchess replied, in a pleased tone.
Pray don’t trouble yourself to say it any longer than that,” said Alice.
A cheap sort of present!” thought Alice. “I’m glad they don’t give birthday presents like that!” But she did not venture to say it out loud.
Thinking again?” the Duchess asked, with another dig of her sharp little chin.
I’ve a right to think,” said Alice sharply, for she was beginning to feel a little worried.
A fine day, your Majesty!” the Duchess began in a low, weak voice.
The Duchess took her choice, and was gone in a moment.
Let’s go on with the game,” the Queen said to Alice; and Alice was too much frightened to say a word, but slowly followed her back to the croquet-ground.
The other guests had taken advantage of the Queen’s absence, and were resting in the shade: however, the moment they saw her, they hurried back to the game, the Queen merely remarking that a moment’s delay would cost them their lives.
It’s the thing Mock Turtle Soup is made from,” said the Queen.
I never saw one, or heard of one,” said Alice.
As they walked off together, Alice heard the King say in a low voice, to the company generally, “You are all pardoned.” “Come, that’s a good thing!” she said to herself, for she had felt quite unhappy at the number of executions the Queen had ordered.
The Gryphon sat up and rubbed its eyes: then it watched the Queen till she was out of sight: then it chuckled. “What fun!” said the Gryphon, half to itself, half to Alice.
What is the fun?” said Alice.
So they went up to the Mock Turtle, who looked at them with large eyes full of tears, but said nothing.
So they sat down, and nobody spoke for some minutes. Alice thought to herself, “I don’t see how he can ever finish, if he doesn’t begin.” But she waited patiently.
Why did you call him Tortoise, if he wasn’t one?” Alice asked.
I never said I didn’t!” interrupted Alice.
You did,” said the Mock Turtle.
Hold your tongue!” added the Gryphon, before Alice could speak again. The Mock Turtle went on.
With extras?” asked the Mock Turtle a little anxiously.
And washing?” said the Mock Turtle.
What was that like?” said Alice.
So he did, so he did,” said the Gryphon, sighing in his turn; and both creatures hid their faces in their paws.
And how many hours a day did you do lessons?” said Alice, in a hurry to change the subject.
What a curious plan!” exclaimed Alice.
Of course it was,” said the Mock Turtle.
And how did you manage on the twelfth?” Alice went on eagerly.
That generally takes some time,” interrupted the Gryphon.
Each with a lobster as a partner!” cried the Gryphon.
change lobsters, and retire in same order,” continued the Gryphon.
The lobsters!” shouted the Gryphon, with a bound into the air.
Swim after them!” screamed the Gryphon.
Turn a somersault in the sea!” cried the Mock Turtle, capering wildly about.
Change lobsters again!” yelled the Gryphon at the top of its voice.
Back to land again, and that’s all the first figure,” said the Mock Turtle, suddenly dropping his voice; and the two creatures, who had been jumping about like mad things all this time, sat down again very sadly and quietly, and looked at Alice.
It must be a very pretty dance,” said Alice timidly.
Would you like to see a little of it?” said the Mock Turtle.
Yes,” said Alice, “I’ve often seen them at dinn—” she checked herself hastily.
You’re wrong about the crumbs,” said the Mock Turtle: “crumbs would all wash off in the sea. But they have their tails in their mouths; and the reason is—” here the Mock Turtle yawned and shut his eyes.—“Tell her about the reason and all that,” he said to the Gryphon.
It does the boots and shoes,” the Gryphon replied very solemnly.
Alice was thoroughly puzzled. “Does the boots and shoes!” she repeated in a wondering tone.
And what are they made of?” Alice asked in a tone of great curiosity.
Wouldn’t it really?” said Alice in a tone of great surprise.
Don’t you mean ‘purpose’?” said Alice.
Explain all that,” said the Mock Turtle.
It’s all about as curious as it can be,” said the Gryphon.
It all came different!” the Mock Turtle repeated thoughtfully. “I should like to hear her try and repeat something now. Tell her to begin.” He looked at the Gryphon as if he thought it had some kind of authority over Alice.
Stand up and repeat ‘’Tis the voice of the sluggard,’” said the Gryphon.
That’s different from what I used to say when I was a child,” said the Gryphon.
Alice said nothing; she had sat down with her face in her hands, wondering if anything would ever happen in a natural way again.
I should like to have it explained,” said the Mock Turtle.
It’s the first position in dancing.” Alice said; but was dreadfully puzzled by the whole thing, and longed to change the subject.
Yes, I think you’d better leave off,” said the Gryphon: and Alice was only too glad to do so.
Beautiful Soup, so rich and green, Waiting in a hot tureen! Who for such dainties would not stoop? Soup of the evening, beautiful Soup! Soup of the evening, beautiful Soup! Beau—ootiful Soo—oop! Beau—ootiful Soo—oop! Soo—oop of the e—e—evening, Beautiful, beautiful Soup!
Chorus again!” cried the Gryphon, and the Mock Turtle had just begun to repeat it, when a cry of “The trial’s beginning!” was heard in the distance.
Come on!” cried the Gryphon, and, taking Alice by the hand, it hurried off, without waiting for the end of the song.
The judge, by the way, was the King; and as he wore his crown over the wig, (look at the frontispiece if you want to see how he did it,) he did not look at all comfortable, and it was certainly not becoming.
Stupid things!” Alice began in a loud, indignant voice, but she stopped hastily, for the White Rabbit cried out, “Silence in the court!” and the King put on his spectacles and looked anxiously round, to make out who was talking.
Herald, read the accusation!” said the King.
Consider your verdict,” the King said to the jury.
The Hatter looked at the March Hare, who had followed him into the court, arm-in-arm with the Dormouse. “Fourteenth of March, I think it was,” he said.
Write that down,” the King said to the jury, and the jury eagerly wrote down all three dates on their slates, and then added them up, and reduced the answer to shillings and pence.
Take off your hat,” the King said to the Hatter.
It isn’t mine,” said the Hatter.
Stolen!” the King exclaimed, turning to the jury, who instantly made a memorandum of the fact.
Here the Queen put on her spectacles, and began staring at the Hatter, who turned pale and fidgeted.
This did not seem to encourage the witness at all: he kept shifting from one foot to the other, looking uneasily at the Queen, and in his confusion he bit a large piece out of his teacup instead of the bread-and-butter.
You’ve no right to grow here,” said the Dormouse.
Yes, but I grow at a reasonable pace,” said the Dormouse: “not in that ridiculous fashion.” And he got up very sulkily and crossed over to the other side of the court.
The twinkling of the what?” said the King.
It began with the tea,” the Hatter replied.
I didn’t!” the March Hare interrupted in a great hurry.
I deny it!” said the March Hare.
Well, at any rate, the Dormouse said—” the Hatter went on, looking anxiously round to see if he would deny it too: but the Dormouse denied nothing, being fast asleep.
But what did the Dormouse say?” one of the jury asked.
That I can’t remember,” said the Hatter.
The miserable Hatter dropped his teacup and bread-and-butter, and went down on one knee. “I’m a poor man, your Majesty,” he began.
You’re a very poor speaker,” said the King.
If that’s all you know about it, you may stand down,” continued the King.
Then you may sit down,” the King replied.
Here the other guinea-pig cheered, and was suppressed.
I’d rather finish my tea,” said the Hatter, with an anxious look at the Queen, who was reading the list of singers.
You may go,” said the King, and the Hatter hurriedly left the court, without even waiting to put his shoes on.
and just take his head off outside,” the Queen added to one of the officers: but the Hatter was out of sight before the officer could get to the door.
Call the next witness!” said the King.
The next witness was the Duchess’s cook. She carried the pepper-box in her hand, and Alice guessed who it was, even before she got into the court, by the way the people near the door began sneezing all at once.
Give your evidence,” said the King.
Treacle,” said a sleepy voice behind her.
For some minutes the whole court was in confusion, getting the Dormouse turned out, and, by the time they had settled down again, the cook had disappeared.
The trial cannot proceed,” said the King in a very grave voice, “until all the jurymen are back in their proper places—all,” he repeated with great emphasis, looking hard at Alice as he said so.
What do you know about this business?” the King said to Alice.
That’s very important,” the King said, turning to the jury. They were just beginning to write this down on their slates, when the White Rabbit interrupted: “Unimportant, your Majesty means, of course,” he said in a very respectful tone, but frowning and making faces at him as he spoke.
important—unimportant—unimportant—important—” as if he were trying which word sounded best.
Some of the jury wrote it down “important,” and some “unimportant.” Alice could see this, as she was near enough to look over their slates; “but it doesn’t matter a bit,” she thought to herself.
I’m not a mile high,” said Alice.
Nearly two miles high,” added the Queen.
It’s the oldest rule in the book,” said the King.
Then it ought to be Number One,” said Alice.
The King turned pale, and shut his note-book hastily. “Consider your verdict,” he said to the jury, in a low, trembling voice.
What’s in it?” said the Queen.
Who is it directed to?” said one of the jurymen.
Are they in the prisoner’s handwriting?” asked another of the jurymen.
There was a general clapping of hands at this: it was the first really clever thing the King had said that day.
That proves his guilt,” said the Queen.
The White Rabbit put on his spectacles. “Where shall I begin, please your Majesty?” he asked.
They told me you had been to her, And mentioned me to him: She gave me a good character, But said I could not swim.
He sent them word I had not gone (We know it to be true): If she should push the matter on, What would become of you?
I gave her one, they gave him two, You gave us three or more; They all returned from him to you, Though they were mine before.
If I or she should chance to be Involved in this affair, He trusts to you to set them free, Exactly as we were.
My notion was that you had been (Before she had this fit) An obstacle that came between Him, and ourselves, and it.
The jury all wrote down on their slates, “She doesn’t believe there’s an atom of meaning in it,” but none of them attempted to explain the paper.
But, it goes on ‘they all returned from him to you,’” said Alice.
Why, there they are!” said the King triumphantly, pointing to the tarts on the table. “Nothing can be clearer than that. Then again—‘before she had this fit—’ you never had fits, my dear, I think?” he said to the Queen.
Then the words don’t fit you,” said the King, looking round the court with a smile. There was a dead silence.
It’s a pun!” the King added in an offended tone, and everybody laughed, “Let the jury consider their verdict,” the King said, for about the twentieth time that day.
Hold your tongue!” said the Queen, turning purple.
Off with her head!” the Queen shouted at the top of her voice. Nobody moved.
