Harry Potter lived in a cupboard under the stairs at number four Privet Drive.
Harry discovered he was a wizard on his eleventh birthday.
Hagrid came to tell Harry that he had been accepted to Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.
Harry boarded the Hogwarts Express from platform nine and three quarters.
Harry met Ron Weasley on the train to Hogwarts.
Harry met Hermione Granger on the train to Hogwarts.
The Sorting Hat placed Harry in Gryffindor house.
The Sorting Hat placed Ron in Gryffindor house.
The Sorting Hat placed Hermione in Gryffindor house.
Harry was the youngest seeker in a century on the Gryffindor Quidditch team.
Harry played the position of seeker in Quidditch.
Ron loved playing wizard chess with his enchanted chess set.
Hermione was the smartest witch in her year at Hogwarts.
The three friends always worked together to solve mysteries at Hogwarts.
Albus Dumbledore was the headmaster of Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.
Dumbledore had a long silver beard and half moon spectacles.
Professor Snape taught Potions class at Hogwarts.
Snape always seemed to dislike Harry Potter.
Professor McGonagall taught Transfiguration at Hogwarts.
McGonagall was the head of Gryffindor house.
Hagrid was the gamekeeper at Hogwarts and a friend to Harry.
Hagrid loved dangerous magical creatures and always wanted to keep them as pets.
The Forbidden Forest was home to many dangerous magical creatures.
Harry had a pet owl named Hedwig who delivered his mail.
Ron had a pet rat named Scabbers who turned out to be a traitor.
Hermione had a pet cat named Crookshanks who was half kneazle.
Harry flew on a broomstick during Quidditch matches.
The Golden Snitch was the most important ball in Quidditch and the seeker had to catch it.
Harry caught the Golden Snitch in his very first Quidditch match.
Gryffindor won the Quidditch cup after a thrilling match against Slytherin.
The Gryffindor common room was located in one of the towers of Hogwarts.
The password to the Gryffindor common room changed regularly.
The Great Hall of Hogwarts had an enchanted ceiling that showed the sky outside.
The four houses at Hogwarts were Gryffindor Slytherin Ravenclaw and Hufflepuff.
Slytherin house valued ambition and cunning above all else.
Gryffindor house valued bravery and courage above all else.
Ravenclaw house valued wit and wisdom above all else.
Hufflepuff house valued loyalty and hard work above all else.
Lord Voldemort was the most dangerous dark wizard of all time.
Voldemort was so feared that wizards called him He Who Must Not Be Named.
Voldemort killed Harry parents when Harry was just a baby.
Harry mother sacrificed herself to protect Harry from Voldemort.
The love of his mother gave Harry a protection that Voldemort could not break.
Harry had a lightning bolt scar on his forehead from Voldemort attack.
Harry scar hurt whenever Voldemort was near or powerful.
The Death Eaters were the loyal followers of Lord Voldemort.
The Death Eaters wore masks and dark robes during their attacks.
Draco Malfoy was a student in Slytherin house and Harry rival at Hogwarts.
Draco father Lucius Malfoy was a Death Eater.
The Malfoy family was very proud of their pure blood heritage.
The Weasley family was known for being poor but loving and loyal.
Ron had five older brothers and one younger sister named Ginny.
Ginny Weasley had a crush on Harry Potter when she was young.
The Burrow was the name of the Weasley family home.
The Burrow was a magical house that seemed to be held up by magic alone.
Molly Weasley was the mother of the Weasley family and a great cook.
Arthur Weasley was fascinated by muggle artifacts and how they worked.
Muggles were non magical people who had no idea that wizards existed.
The Ministry of Magic governed the wizarding world in Britain.
The Ministry of Magic was located underground in London.
Diagon Alley was the hidden shopping street where wizards bought their supplies.
Harry bought his first wand at Ollivanders in Diagon Alley.
The wand chooses the wizard said Ollivander the wandmaker.
Harry wand had a phoenix feather core just like Voldemort wand.
The two wands were brothers because they came from the same phoenix.
Gringotts was the wizard bank run by goblins deep under London.
The Leaky Cauldron was the pub that served as the entrance to Diagon Alley.
Hogwarts was hidden from muggles by powerful enchantments.
The Hogwarts castle had moving staircases and talking portraits.
The Room of Requirement appeared only when someone needed it badly enough.
The Marauders Map showed every person in Hogwarts and every secret passage.
The Marauders Map was created by Harry father and his friends.
Moony Wormtail Padfoot and Prongs were the creators of the Marauders Map.
Harry father James Potter could transform into a stag.
Sirius Black was Harry godfather and a close friend of his father.
Sirius Black was falsely imprisoned in Azkaban for twelve years.
Azkaban was the terrible wizard prison guarded by Dementors.
Dementors fed on happy memories and left people with only their worst experiences.
A Patronus charm could drive away Dementors with positive energy.
Harry learned to cast a Patronus that took the shape of a stag.
Expecto Patronum was the incantation used to cast a Patronus charm.
The spell to disarm an opponent was called Expelliarmus.
The spell to light a wand was called Lumos.
The spell to extinguish a wand light was called Nox.
The spell to summon objects was called Accio.
The spell to stun an opponent was called Stupefy.
Wingardium Leviosa was the levitation charm that Hermione mastered in first year.
The Polyjuice Potion allowed a witch or wizard to take the appearance of another person.
Brewing Polyjuice Potion was complex and took a full month to complete.
Felix Felicis was liquid luck that made the drinker lucky for a day.
The Philosopher Stone could turn any metal into gold and produce the Elixir of Life.
The Elixir of Life granted immortality to whoever drank it.
Voldemort sought the Philosopher Stone to regain a body and power.
Harry stopped Voldemort from getting the Philosopher Stone in his first year at Hogwarts.
The Mirror of Erised showed the deepest desire of whoever looked into it.
Harry saw his parents in the Mirror of Erised because he had never known them.
The Chamber of Secrets was hidden beneath Hogwarts by Salazar Slytherin.
The Chamber of Secrets contained a terrible monster called a Basilisk.
A Basilisk was a giant serpent whose gaze could kill anyone who looked into its eyes.
Harry killed the Basilisk with the Sword of Gryffindor.
Fawkes the phoenix healed Harry wound with his tears after the battle.
The Triwizard Tournament was a dangerous competition between three wizarding schools.
The three schools were Hogwarts Beauxbatons and Durmstrang.
Harry name came out of the Goblet of Fire even though he did not enter.
Harry had to face a dragon in the first task of the Triwizard Tournament.
Harry won the Triwizard Tournament but the trophy was a portkey to Voldemort.
Cedric Diggory was killed by Voldemort in the graveyard that night.
Voldemort returned to full power using Harry blood in a dark ritual.
The Order of the Phoenix was a secret organization fighting against Voldemort.
Dumbledore reformed the Order of the Phoenix to fight the Death Eaters.
The prophecy said that neither Harry nor Voldemort could live while the other survived.
Harry and Voldemort had a duel where their wands connected in a golden cage.
Priori Incantatem was the effect that forced a wand to show its last spells.
The ghosts of Voldemort victims emerged from his wand during Priori Incantatem.
Harry parents appeared as ghosts and gave him time to escape.
The Battle of Hogwarts was the final confrontation between Harry and Voldemort.
Harry willingly walked into the forest to sacrifice himself for his friends.
Harry survived because he was the true master of the Elder Wand.
The Elder Wand was the most powerful wand ever made and one of the Deathly Hallows.
The Deathly Hallows were the Elder Wand the Resurrection Stone and the Cloak of Invisibility.
Harry possessed all three Deathly Hallows and became the Master of Death.
Harry defeated Voldemort in the Great Hall of Hogwarts in front of everyone.
Voldemort died when his own killing curse rebounded because Harry was the true master of the Elder Wand.
After the battle Hogwarts was at peace and Harry had finally defeated his enemy.
Harry married Ginny Weasley and they had three children named Albus James and Lily.
Ron married Hermione and they had two children named Rose and Hugo.
Harry told his son Albus that he was named after two headmasters of Hogwarts.
Nineteen years later Harry waved goodbye to his children at platform nine and three quarters.
The wizarding world lived in peace after Voldemort was finally defeated.
